B)Performing Spatial join
We will use 2 layers -
 A shape file of borough boundaries of New York city and another shape file of nursing home
 locations in New York city. We will use spatial join technique to find the total nursing home
 capacity for each of the boroughs.
Required dataset:
nybb_12c.zip OEM_NursingHomes_001.zip
1.Add Vector layer “nybb.shp” and “OEM_NursingHomes_001.shp”
2.Both the files are loaded in QGIS
3.Right click on OEM_NursingHomes_001 from layer pane and click on Open Attribute Table.
4.Observe the table. Since our task is to calculate total nursing home capacity for each borough,
 we can use “Capacity” attribute which can be join to the boundaries layer.
5.Go to Vector Data Management Tool Join attributes by location.
6.The Target vector layer is the one which we want to add the attributes to. In this case, this will
 be the boroughs boundary “nybb” layer. The Join vector layer will be the nursing homes “OEM_NursingHomes_001”
 layer. Since we want to sum the capacity of nursing homes,
select “Take summary of intersecting features” and choose “Sum”. Browse to the location where we want to save this
 file and give name as nyc_borough_join.shp. In the Output table select “Keep all records”.
7.Select Yes when asked if you want to add the layer to TOC. The new layer nyc_borough_join would have the features
 from nybb layer along with spatially joined attributes from OEM_NUrsingHomes_001 layer. Right-click on the newly 
created layer and select Open Attribute Table.
8.In attribute table there is one column SUMCapacit, this is the sum of capacity attribute for nursing homes fall 
within each borough feature.
9.This is something for which we are looking, but some extra attributes are also available which are of no use for this
 project so we will delete those columns. Click on Toggle editing button and then Delete column button.
10.Press control key and from the delete attribute window select the columns which we want to delete then click on Ok button.
11.In the attribute table window click on save edits button then click on toggle editing button again.
12.Now in QGIS main window, use identify tool to verify that the output file has desired attributes for each feature.

 

